"What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?"

The .git hidden directory is created within current directory. Initially there
are no commits.

"How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?"

Files in the working directory are not automatically tracked by git, until added to the staging area with "git add <filename>". The repository (I think) is the commit history of all files that have been added. I'm hazy on the repository concept.

"How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?"

If multiple files are part of the logical change, you can add each file to the staging area after making necessary changes but prior to committing.

"What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?"

Could add a new branch when testing an experimental feature, when we want to separately maintain a version of the main project without it as well.

"How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?"

With a diagram you can see what the parent node is for any node. Anyway this just seems obvious, of course diagrams help you visualize the tree structure of the nodes.

"What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?"

Changes that were added to the common parent by one or both children are part of the merge. Changes deleted by either are not part of the merge. Any line included in both children is part of the merge.

"What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?"

Pro: Automatic merging should be less error prone and since it operates systematically, will become easier to use with practice. You're always following the same system.

Con: When you do the merge manually, you can take into account the intent behind the changes that happened within each branch. So manual might be better if you're very familiar with what is going on in each branch, whereas git's automated approach won't be able to incorporate that knowledge.